# Cloud Messaging

You can use the Firebase Admin SDK for PHP to send Firebase Cloud Messaging messages to end-user devices. Specifically, you can send messages to individual devices, named topics, or condition statements that match one or more topics.

## Initializing the Messaging Component

```php
$messaging = app('firebase.messaging');
```

## Getting Started

```php
use Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\CloudMessage;

$message = CloudMessage::withTarget(/* see sections below */)
    ->withNotification(Notification::create('Title', 'Body'))
    ->withData(['key' => 'value']);

$messaging->send($message);
```

A message must be an object implementing `Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\Message` or an array that can be parsed to a `Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\CloudMessage`.

You can use `Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\RawMessageFromArray` to create a message without the SDK checking it for validity before sending it. This gives you full control over the sent message, but also means that you have to send/validate a message in order to know if it’s valid or not.

## Send messages to a specific device

The Admin FCM API allows you to send messages to individual devices by specifying a registration token for the target device. Registration tokens are strings generated by the client FCM SDKs for each end-user client app instance.

Web Firebase client SDK is able to generate these registration tokens. See more [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/client#access_the_registration_token).

```php
use Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\CloudMessage;

$deviceToken = '...';

$message = CloudMessage::withTarget('token', $deviceToken)
    ->withNotification($notification) // optional
    ->withData($data) // optional
;

$message = CloudMessage::fromArray([
    'token' => $deviceToken,
    'notification' => [/* Notification data as array */], // optional
    'data' => [/* data array */], // optional
]);

$messaging->send($message);
```

### Access these registration tokens

1. Configure Web Credentials with FCM

    The FCM Web interface uses Web credentials called "Voluntary Application Server Identification," or "VAPID" keys, to authorize send requests to supported web push services. To subscribe your app to push notifications, you need to associate a pair of keys with your Firebase project. You can either [generate a new key pair](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/client#generate_a_new_key_pair) or [import your existing key pair](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/client#import_an_existing_key_pair) through the Firebase Console.

2. Configure Web Credentials in your app

    The method `getToken(): Promise<string>` allows FCM to use the VAPID key credential when sending message requests to different push services. Using the key you generated or imported according to the instructions in Configure Web Credentials with FCM, add it in your code after the messaging object is retrieved:

    ```js
    // Add the public key generated from the console here.
    messaging.getToken({vapidKey: "BKagOny0KF_2pCJQ3m....moL0ewzQ8rZu"});
    ```

3. Access the token

    When you need to retrieve the current registration token for an app instance, call `getToken`. If notification permission has not been granted, this method will ask the user for notification permissions. Otherwise, it returns a token or rejects the promise due to an error.

    The messaging service requires a `firebase-messaging-sw.js` file. Unless you already have a `firebase-messaging-sw.js` file, create an empty file with that name and place it in the root of your domain before retrieving a token. You can add meaningful content to the file later in the client setup process.

To retrieve the current token:

```js
// Get registration token. Initially this makes a network call, once retrieved
// subsequent calls to getToken will return from cache.
messaging.getToken({ vapidKey: '<YOUR_PUBLIC_VAPID_KEY_HERE>' }).then((currentToken) => {
if (currentToken) {
    // Send the token to your server and update the UI if necessary
    // ...
} else {
    // Show permission request UI
    console.log('No registration token available. Request permission to generate one.');
    // ...
}
}).catch((err) => {
console.log('An error occurred while retrieving token. ', err);
// ...
});
```

After you've obtained the token, send it to your app server and store it using your preferred method.

## Changing the message target

You can change the target of an already created message with the `withChangedTarget()` method.

```php
use Kreait\Firebase\Messaging\CloudMessage;

$deviceToken = '...';
$anotherDeviceToken = '...';

$message = CloudMessage::withTarget('token', $deviceToken)
    ->withNotification(['title' => 'My title', 'body' => 'My Body']);

$messaging->send($message);

$sameMessageToDifferentTarget = $message->withChangedTarget('token', $anotherDeviceToken);
```

You can read full documentation of Firebase Admin SDK [here](https://firebase-php.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cloud-messaging.html#cloud-messaging).
